The President: Hi, everybody.
It’s Memorial Day weekend – a chance for
Americans to get together with family and
friends,
break out the grill, and kick off the unofficial
start of summer.
More importantly, it’s a time to remember
the heroes whose sacrifices made these moments
possible –-
our men and women in uniform who gave their
lives to keep our nation safe and free.
From those shots fired at Lexington and Concord
more than two centuries ago to our newest
generation of veterans of the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan,
our history shines with patriots who answered
the call to serve.
They put their lives on the line to defend
the country they loved.
And in the end, many gave that “last full
measure of devotion” so that our nation
would endure.
Every single one of us owes our fallen heroes
a profound debt of gratitude.
Because every time we cast our votes or speak
our minds without fear, it’s because they
fought for our right to do that.
Every chance we get to make a better life
for ourselves and our families is possible
because generations of patriots fought to
keep America a land of opportunity,
where anyone – of any race, any religion,
from any background – can make it if they
try.
Our country was born out of a desire to be
free, and every day since, it’s been protected
by our men and women in uniform – people
who believed so deeply in America, they were
willing to give their lives for it.
We owe them so much.
So this Memorial Day, we’ll gather together,
as Americans, to honor the fallen, with both
public ceremonies and private remembrances.
And I hope all Americans will take a moment
this weekend to think of those who have died
in service to our nation.
Say a prayer in their memories and for their
families.
Lay a flower where they’ve come to rest.
Reach out to service members, military families
or veterans in your community, or families
who have lost loved ones,
and let them know that their service and sacrifice
will never be forgotten.
Most of all, let’s keep working to make
sure that our country upholds our sacred trust
to all who’ve served.
In recent weeks, we’ve seen again how much
more our nation has to do to make sure all
our veterans get the care they deserve.
As Commander in Chief, I believe that taking
care of our veterans and their families is
a sacred obligation.
It’s been one of the causes of my presidency.
And now that we’ve ended the war in Iraq,
and as our war in Afghanistan ends as well,
we have to work even harder as a nation to
make sure all our veterans get the benefits
and opportunities they’ve earned.
They’ve done their duty, and they ask nothing
more than that this country does ours – now
and for decades to come.
Happy Memorial Day, everybody.
May God watch over our fallen heroes.
And may He continue to bless the United States
of America.